Onchain Brand Voice
1. The brand voice reflects our brand personality:
We are:
* Approachable
* Inspiring
* Authoritative


“Onchain is a diverse group of individuals who came together because we’re passionate about innovation and blockchain. We are fascinated by blockchains' potential to improve business processes and elevate human society.
Together, we set out to explore the true possibilities this technology offers. We are curious how people are implementing it right now in all areas of life. What we discover, we share with you so you can easily find or create your own onchain space.”
The brand voice character:
* Our voice is competent but never arrogant.
-> We speak with authority but never patronize or deprecate. 
* Our voice is educated. However, we never claim to know everything. 
-> We are driven by curiosity and love to ask questions. 
* Our voice is analytical and fact-focused without sounding academic.
-> We are straightforward in our language and use simple terms.
* Our voice is passionate about blockchain and innovation and driven to help make the world a better place for all of humanity, but do not get emotional about it.
-> We aim to encourage and inspire without being pushy or judgmental.
* Our voice is conversational and engaging, but we don't get chatty or ordinary.
-> We address our readers directly with respect. 
2. The tone of voice reflects the “mood” and can vary per content asset 
Depending on the type of content, its purpose, and the specific target audience segment, the tone may vary. 
For example, social media content will typically be more conversational than other content. Reports, on the other hand, will sound more analytical than articles or videos.
The tone of voice must always remain aligned with the brand voice. 
3. General 
* We prefer active voice over passive voice.
* We write positively and don’t judge.
* Our language is focused and concise.
* We write in plain English and avoid slang and jargon (except industry-specific terms that are commonly used by our target audience).
* Our content is practical, useful, and actionable for the reader.
* We aim to provide something unique in every content piece.
* We are not afraid to add a personal touch.
* We use inclusive language to avoid potential unintended discrimination or bias.
Onchain Brand Voice Chart


Please adhere to each of the 3 main characteristics described below to ensure all documentation written is in accordance with the Onchain brand voice requirements.




Characteristic 1 -  Be inspiring and empowering. Use calls to action and reasoning.
This will empower people to take action by enabling them to realistically access their possibilities and offering proven approaches to address their challenges. 
Follow the “Do’s and Don’ts in the table below:
 


Do
	Don’t
	Explain and give tools to take action.
	Patronize or put yourself above the reader.
	Focus on the reader's needs.
	Don’t Stuff or clutter.
	Use active language.
	Make things sound more complicated than they are.
	Present relatable examples.
	Curse or use degrading language.
	Ask questions that encourage the reader to think.
	Talk about theoretical ideas.
	Create a visual image in the reader's mind.
	Write in a stale/boring/uninspiring way.
	Mention success stories.
	

	Draw a connection between the content and the readers. i.e., "Why is this interesting for you?"
	

	Be optimistic but not unrealistic.
	

	Show realistic possibilities and practical ideas.
	

	Give reasoned and rationale comparisons with Web2 options.
	

	Tell a story and weave it into your articles.
	

	







Characteristic 2 -  Be approachable,  inclusive, empathetic, and friendly.
Focus on the human aspect and the human connection. Make our audience feel they are - or can be - part of something big. We want to show our interest in their beliefs and struggles. Follow the “Do’s and Don’ts in the table below:






Do
	Don’t
	Keep language simple.
	Wild run-on sentences.
	Encourage engagement.
	Overuse jargon.
	Address the reader directly. 
	Use academically focused word salads.
	Encourage feedback/comments etc.
	Generalize.
	Use active language.
	Use passive language.
	Predict reader concerns/questions - and then answer them.
	

	Incorporate personal experience (not opinion). 
	

	Write in plain English (not academic).
	

	Empathize with Web3 newbies' struggles, then give them a path forward.
	

	



Characteristic 3 -  Be authoritative, visionary, confident, and portray everything in an unbiased manner.
Speak from a position of knowledge and understanding based on balanced research. Share our vision and the reasons to believe with confidence. 
Follow the “Do’s and Don’ts in the table below:




Do
	Don’t
	Back up your work (with data, facts, sources, etc).
	Be overconfident and use far-off predictions.
	Write as Onchain, not yourself (or with your personal opinions).
	Use wishy-washy language.
	Provide balanced analysis (pros/cons).
	Overpromise.
	Cite credible sources.
	Speculate without backup data.
	Use decisive language.
	Use opinionated language.
	Research facts.
	Present personal opinions as facts.
	Show actual data and numbers.
	Use questionable sources.
	

	Show only one side. 
	

	Present facts you're not sure of.
	

	Sound or come across as judgemental.